NUPP

NAME
    NUPP

VERSION
    7.2; 24Feb2011

AUTHOR
    Bill Stewart (bstewart@iname.com)

SYNOPSIS
    nupp +d: uncpath
    nupp -d:

AVAILABILITY
    Win32 - Windows 95, 98, Me, NT 4.0, 2000, XP, 2003, Vista, 2008, etc.

DESCRIPTION
    NUPP (short for "net use push/pop") is a utility for temporarily mapping a
    network drive to a particular UNC pathname, then restoring the previous
    drive mapping.

    It works by determining if a particular drive is mapped. If it is mapped,
    it creates a text file in the TEMP directory called "NUPPTEMP.d", where "d"
    is the drive letter you want to map. The file will contain the UNC path
    associated with the drive letter.

    If the drive had no mapping, the temporary file will simply be a two byte
    file (containing a carriage return/line feed), indicating no mapping was in
    use.

    The utility then disconnects the specified drive; after it disconnects the
    drive, it attempts to map it to the specified UNC path. If this fails, the
    previous drive mapping is restored and the temporary file is deleted.

    If you restore a drive letter that had no associated mapping, the drive is
    simply disconnected; e.g. if the temporary file specifies no UNC path to
    restore.

    This was inspired by Symantec's utility NBPSHPOP.EXE, which appears to be a
    DOS application that is essentially a wrapper for the "net use" command.
    This program is superior to Symantec's because it is a native Win32
    application and is therefore much faster and doesn't generate unnecessary
    screen output. You can use NUPP.EXE in place of NBPSHPOP.EXE for faster
    performance if you only support 32-bit clients on the network.

PARAMETERS
    +d:
        Maps the specified drive letter.

    uncpath
        Maps to the specified UNC path, in \\computername\share format. If the
        drive mapping fails, the previous mapping is restored, and the
        temporary file is deleted.

    -d:
        Restores the specified drive's previous mapping. If the program can't
        find a corresponding NUPPTEMP.d file in the TEMP directory, this is an
        error condition.

EXIT STATUS
    0   No errors.
    1   An error occurred.

EXAMPLES
    1.  NUPP +V: \\AVS1\vplogon

        Maps drive V: to the "vplogon" share on the server "AVS1". The file
        NUPPTEMP.V contains the text "\\AVS1\vplogon".

    2.  NUPP -V:

        Restores the mapping of drive V: to its previous value. If drive V: was
        not mapped to anything, the drive is simply disconnected.
